What is MongoDB?
MongoDB is NoSQL database, which means
1.It doesn't use tablets or schemas like MySQL/PostgresSQL
2.It stores data in a flexible JSON - like format called BSON (Binary JSON)
3.It's document-oriented, scalable and superfast for moodern web

where we use MD MongoDB can be for webapplication with frequent upddates.
2.Large scale data with high speed(Rapido)
3.Real time chattiing app like Whatapp etc...


what are the key concepts?
Database -----> A contatiner for collections.
Collection -----> a group if docus
Document -----> a single record
field----> key value pair
_id---> unique id for every document




example doc?
{
    "_id":"1234",
    "name" : "venky",
    "course" :['python','java'],
    "enroll":'30-06-2025'
    

}









Continues Integration:
    Continues intergation  means developers frequently merge their code into shared repository often several times a day
    Each push triggers and automated pipeline
    1.Compiles the code
    2. Runs tests.
    3.reports errors.
    THe is to cash bugs 
    CI insures that your application is stable , multiple members in a team can the work that application simantionusly

Continuos Delivery:
    Onces CI is successful Continues Delivery insures that the code is ready for deployment to production at any time
    However actually deployment is manually
    This phase includes:
        Buildin  application
        Running more advance application
        pacakaging the app

Contious Deployment:
    It is automate  deployment to  production without human interaction. As so as your code pass test and build is successful.The app is deployed live.
   
   
    YAML ---> Its is another markup is human readable data format use to  define configuration files.
        where is YAML use
            defining CICD work flow 
            Kubernets(k8's) is google product
            Docker compose
            Assimble playbooks
            Automate API'
            Devops


Docker is a tool it's pacaakege your application and its dependencies in a container.So it runs the same every where.Dockers makes deployement fast and pertable.Docker is required for scalable CICD,microperations and Devops